[VAULT-5268] Add mount move docs (#14314)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/api-docs/system/remount.mdx

  endpoint.
---

# Remount ( API )

The Remount documentation details the endpoints required to trigger and monitor the status of a remount operation.

## Move Backend

> The `/sys/remount` endpoint moves an already-mounted backend to a new mount point. This works for both secret engines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `/sys/remount` endpoint moves an already-mounted backend to a new mount point. This process works for both secret engines
```

and auth methods.

> It can be used to move the backend across namespaces as well, with the namespaces supplied as prefixes

Reviewer: If the implied reference is the endpoint, I recommend stating that at the beginning of the sentence and replace "It".

Author: [29ce383](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/pull/14314/commits/29ce3830382cc5a0df24a043911868d4bf0323eb)

> The endpoint can be used to move the backend across namespaces as well, with the namespaces supplied as prefixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The endpoint may be used to move the backend across namespaces as well, with the namespaces supplied as prefixes
```

Author: I think `can` is correct here imo, since the vault operator decides how to use this endpoint

> on the path arguments. For this case, the namespaces of both the source and destination mounts need to be 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the path arguments. In this case, namespaces for both the source and destination mounts must be 
```

> either the namespace in which the /remount endpoint is called, or children of it. Say, we have 3 namespaces 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
either the namespace in which the `/remount` endpoint is called, or children of it. Say, we have 3 namespaces 
```

> either the namespace in which the `/remount` endpoint is called, or children of it. Say, we have 3 namespaces 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
either the namespace in which the `/remount` endpoint is named, or the children of the namespace. Two methods may be used to move mount `secret` from ns1/ns2secret to ns1/ns3/secret. For this example, we will utilize three namespaces ns1/, ns1/ns2/ and ns1/ns3.
```

Author: used `ways` instead of `methods` as method as auth method connotations in vault, so reworded the suggestions in this block a bit, but tried to accept most of it
[ec185fc](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/pull/14314/commits/ec185fca4801fb73794fecd7dda77eea8a8e6d22)

> ns1/, ns1/ns2/ and ns1/ns3. We want to move the mount `secret` from ns1/ns2/secret to ns1/ns3/secret. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: [ec185fc](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/pull/14314/commits/ec185fca4801fb73794fecd7dda77eea8a8e6d22)

> We can either invoke from the root namespace with the `from` argument as ns1/ns2/secret and `to` argument 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first method is to invoke from the root namespace with the `from` argument as ns1/ns2/secret and `to` argument 
```

Author: [ec185fc](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/pull/14314/commits/ec185fca4801fb73794fecd7dda77eea8a8e6d22)

> as ns1/ns3/new-secret, or we can invoke it from the namespace ns1/, with `from` as ns2/secret and `to` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as ns1/ns3/new-secret. The second method is to invoke it from the namespace ns1/, with `from` as ns2/secret and `to` 
```

Author: [ec185fc](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/pull/14314/commits/ec185fca4801fb73794fecd7dda77eea8a8e6d22)

as ns3/new-secret.

> The remount operation can be a long running operation, hence the invocation of /remount triggers the start of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The remount operation may be a long-running operation, hence the invocation of /remount triggers at the beginning of 
```

Author: some of this [ec185fc](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/pull/14314/commits/ec185fca4801fb73794fecd7dda77eea8a8e6d22)

> the remount process, returning a migration ID to the user. The user then uses the migration ID to lookup 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the remount process, returning a migration ID to the user. During this process, the user may utilize the migration ID to look up 
```

Author: [ec185fc](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/pull/14314/commits/ec185fca4801fb73794fecd7dda77eea8a8e6d22)
except the `During the process` bit as the endpoint can be called after the process with the migration ID as well

the status of the mount migration.

~> Note: This endpoint requires a policy with both `sudo` and `update` capabilities to `sys/remount`

> ~> Note: A mount migration will revoke all leases for the secrets of a secrets backend or tokens of an auth backend,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~> Note: A mount migration will revoke all leases for the secrets of a secret's backend or tokens of an auth backend,
```

- `to` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the new destination mount point.

### Sample Payload ( Cross Namespace)

```json
{

>   "from": "ns1/ns2/secret",

Reviewer 2: I think it would be good to add an example for auth as well since we need to prefix "from" and "to" fields with auth/. Would be good to see how the field values look with namespaces.

Author: added an example [ec185fc](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/pull/14314/commits/ec185fca4801fb73794fecd7dda77eea8a8e6d22)

    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/remount
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "migration_id": "ef3ba21c-8be8-4e5f-8d00-cb46a532c665"
}
```

## Monitor Migration Status

This endpoint is used to monitor the status of a mount migration operation, using the ID returned in the response

> of the `sys/remount` call. The response contains the passed in ID, the source and target mounts, and a status field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the `sys/remount` call. The response contains the passed-in ID, the source and target mounts, and a status field
```

Author: [ec185fc](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/pull/14314/commits/ec185fca4801fb73794fecd7dda77eea8a8e6d22)

> which can be one of `in-progress`, `success` or `failure`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that displays `in-progress`, `success` or `failure`.
```

Author: [ec185fc](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/pull/14314/commits/ec185fca4801fb73794fecd7dda77eea8a8e6d22)
